Add blog post: How We Load Data into Snowflake in Seconds with Pulumi (#17572)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/near-real-time-data-loading-snowflake-pulumi/index.md

meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - pablo-seibelt
    - lucas-crespo
tags:
    - data-and-analytics
    - aws
    - python
    - pulumi-esc
    - github
    - snowflake
schema_type: auto
social:
    twitter: "We load data into Snowflake in seconds with a single Pulumi ComponentResource. Direct Firehose to Snowflake streaming, no S3 intermediate. Here's how we built it."
    linkedin: "After running dozens of data loading pipelines in production for over three years, we distilled the patterns into reusable Pulumi ComponentResources. This post walks through a complete end-to-end pipeline: GitHub webhooks to Lambda to Amazon Data Firehose directly into Snowflake. Data lands in seconds, not minutes. Three components, zero copy-paste."
---

When you manage dozens of data-loading pipelines into Snowflake, copy-pasting resources becomes a maintenance problem: IAM (Identity and Access Management) policies drift, naming conventions diverge, and every new source is a chance to introduce a subtle misconfiguration. This post shows how to encapsulate those patterns into composable components and walks through the production lessons we learned running 25+ pipelines for over three years.

> We'll pipe GitHub webhooks into Snowflake with a few lines of Pulumi code. Lambda validates, Amazon Data Firehose streams directly into Snowflake, and data lands in seconds, all wired together by a reusable [`ComponentResource`](/docs/iac/concepts/components/). We also cover two alternative loading patterns (S3 auto-ingest and batch) available in the [companion template](https://github.com/pulumi-demos/examples/tree/main/python/aws-snowflake-data-loading-real-time). We use Pulumi ESC to handle authentication to both AWS and Snowflake.

Reviewer: > Lambda validates, Amazon Data Firehose streams directly...

Is there a word missing at the beginning? Feels like a sentence fragment, but I'm not sure what the intent is

- **Change Data Capture (CDC) replication:** streaming database changes via Debezium, [Fivetran](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/fivetran/), or [AWS DMS](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/api-docs/dms/) into Snowflake.
- **Log and telemetry pipelines:** application logs, CloudTrail events, or IoT telemetry flowing through Firehose into Snowflake for analytics.
- **Multi-source data pipelines:** teams managing dozens of sources into a centralized Snowflake Data Warehouse with consistent infrastructure and naming conventions.

[Josh Kodroff](/blog/author/josh-kodroff/) wrote an excellent [introduction to Snowpipe with Pulumi](https://medium.com/snowflake/lightning-fast-elt-for-python-devs-with-aws-snowpipe-and-pulumi-4eaf056dd097). This post builds on his work using the newest [Snowflake](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/snowflake/) and [AWS](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/) provider APIs and the direct Firehose-to-Snowflake destination, which wasn't available when Josh wrote his post. Some resource names and grant patterns will also differ if you're comparing the two.

## Architecture overview

> The following diagram shows the recommended pipeline for loading GitHub webhooks into Snowflake in seconds:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following diagram shows the recommended pipeline for loading GitHub webhooks into Snowflake:
```

![Architecture diagram showing the pipeline: GitHub Webhook sends events to AWS Lambda for HMAC validation, then Firehose streams directly to Snowflake's REPOSITORY_EVENTS_DIRECT landing table. S3 is used only for backup and errors.](architecture-direct.png)

> GitHub sends webhook events to a Lambda Function URL, which validates the HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) signature and forwards the payload to Amazon Data Firehose. Firehose streams records directly into Snowflake via the Snowpipe Streaming API. Data appears in Snowflake within seconds. S3 is used only as a backup destination for failed records.

Reviewer 2: These links make sense, but I made some suggestions after this this first pass (in comments below) that reworked the intro slightly to get things moving a bit more quickly. Let me know what you think.

This post demonstrates the pattern with AWS (Lambda, Firehose) and Snowflake. The direct Firehose-to-Snowflake destination is an AWS-native feature that works with any Snowflake account. The S3-based patterns (auto-ingest and batch) also support [Azure Blob Storage](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/storage/blobcontainer/) and [Google Cloud Storage](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/gcp/api-docs/storage/bucket/) via Snowflake storage integrations.

## Project setup

Start a new Pulumi Python project and configure it to use [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for dependency management:

```bash
mkdir snowpipe-data-loading && cd snowpipe-data-loading
pulumi new python --name snowpipe-data-loading
```

> Update `Pulumi.yaml` to use the `uv` toolchain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update `Pulumi.yaml` to use [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for dependency management:
```

```yaml
name: snowpipe-data-loading
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    toolchain: uv
description: Production-grade data loading with Pulumi, AWS, and Snowflake
```

Add the provider dependencies: the [AWS](/registry/packages/aws/), [Snowflake](/registry/packages/snowflake/), [GitHub](/registry/packages/github/), [Random](/registry/packages/random/), and [TLS](/registry/packages/tls/) providers:

```bash
uv add 'pulumi>=3.0.0,<4.0.0' 'pulumi-aws>=7.0.0' 'pulumi-snowflake>=2.0.0' \
     'pulumi-github>=6.0.0' 'pulumi-random>=4.0.0' 'pulumi-tls>=5.0.0'
```

That's it. `uv` creates the virtual environment and lockfile automatically. Pulumi will use `uv run` under the hood to execute your program.

All examples in this post are in Python, but Pulumi supports multiple languages. You can implement the same components in TypeScript, Go, .NET, Java, or YAML.

## Managing credentials with Pulumi ESC

> This project needs credentials for two cloud providers, AWS and Snowflake. Hardcoding secrets in `Pulumi.<stack>.yaml` is insecure and doesn't scale: secrets leak into version control, rotate manually, and multiply across environments. [Pulumi ESC](/docs/esc/) (Environments, Secrets, and Configuration) solves this by providing dynamic, short-lived credentials for both providers via OIDC (OpenID Connect). No static secrets are stored anywhere.

Reviewer 2: This reads a bit awkwardly, and could be misread as Pulumi secrets are insecure, which they aren't (and they're safe to check into version control). Perhaps better:

```suggestion
This project requires credentials for two cloud providers, AWS and Snowflake. It uses [Pulumi ESC](/docs/esc/) (Environments, Secrets, and Configuration) to obtain dynamic, short-lived credentials for both providers via OIDC (OpenID Connect), so no static secrets are stored anywhere. 
```

> If you're not using Pulumi ESC, you can add these credentials directly to your stack configuration file (`Pulumi.<stack>.yaml`) using `pulumi config set`.

Author: A normal provider config would mean that we need to manage Snowflake users and their private keys directly, the length of the post would remain similar and we'd not have higlighted ESC which actually shortens the time to success. I can make the section more abridged instead of removing it?

### How it works

You define an ESC environment that opens OIDC connections to AWS and Snowflake. When you run `pulumi up`, ESC exchanges a Pulumi-issued OIDC token for short-lived credentials from each provider, then injects them into your stack config automatically. Your Pulumi program doesn't change at all; the providers read their configuration from `pulumiConfig` as usual.

The following diagram shows how the ESC environments compose. The stack imports a combined dev environment (which itself imports the AWS and Snowflake base environments) plus a separate GitHub environment:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
AWS["snowpipe-demo-aws<br/><i>AWS OIDC login</i>"]
SF["snowpipe-demo-snowflake<br/><i>Snowflake OIDC login</i>"]
GH["snowpipe-demo-github<br/><i>GitHub token</i>"]
Dev["snowpipe-demo-dev<br/><i>Combined environment</i>"]
Stack["Pulumi.&lt;stack&gt;.yaml<br/>(Stack Config)"]

AWS --> Dev
SF --> Dev
Dev --> Stack
GH --> Stack
```

### One-time Snowflake setup

> Follow the [Snowflake OIDC login guide](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-login-credentials/snowflake-login/) for full details. The key step is creating a security integration that trusts Pulumi's OIDC issuer. Replace <your-pulumi-org> with your Pulumi organization name:

Reviewer 2: The bare brackets are causing this to be interpreted as an HTML element (so it gets hidden):

```suggestion
Follow the [Snowflake OIDC login guide](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-login-credentials/snowflake-login/) for full details. The key step is creating a security integration that trusts Pulumi's OIDC issuer. Replace `<your-pulumi-org>` with your Pulumi organization name:
```

More importantly though: Where does this get run?

GRANT ROLE PULUMI_DEPLOYER TO USER ESC_SERVICE_USER;
```

### One-time AWS setup

Follow the [AWS OIDC guide](/docs/esc/guides/configuring-oidc/aws/) for full details. There are two steps: creating an IAM OIDC identity provider and an IAM role with a trust policy.

**Create an IAM OIDC identity provider.** In the AWS console (or via CLI/IaC), add a new identity provider with provider URL `https://api.pulumi.com/oidc` and audience `aws:<your-pulumi-org>`. The audience string scopes trust to your specific Pulumi organization, so only OIDC tokens issued for that org are accepted.

**Create an IAM role with a trust policy.** The trust policy validates that the OIDC token was issued by Pulumi and carries the correct audience claim before allowing `sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::<your-aws-account-id>:oidc-provider/api.pulumi.com/oidc"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "api.pulumi.com/oidc:aud": "aws:<your-pulumi-org>"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> This policy allows any Pulumi ESC environment in your org to assume the role. You can further restrict it using subject claim conditions. The role needs whatever AWS permissions your Pulumi program requires. For this project that means Lambda, Firehose, S3, and IAM.

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
1. **Create an IAM OIDC identity provider.** In the AWS console (or via CLI/IaC), add a new identity provider with provider URL `https://api.pulumi.com/oidc` and audience `aws:<your-pulumi-org>`. The audience string scopes trust to your specific Pulumi organization, so only OIDC tokens issued for that org are accepted.

1. **Create an IAM role with a trust policy.** The trust policy validates that the OIDC token was issued by Pulumi and carries the correct audience claim before allowing `sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`:

    ```json
    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Principal": {
            "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::<your-aws-account-id>:oidc-provider/api.pulumi.com/oidc"
          },
          "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
          "Condition": {
            "StringEquals": {
              "api.pulumi.com/oidc:aud": "aws:<your-pulumi-org>"
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    This policy allows any Pulumi ESC environment in your org to assume the role. You can further restrict it using subject claim conditions. The role needs whatever AWS permissions your Pulumi program requires. For this project that means Lambda, Firehose, S3, and IAM.
````

```

**Snowflake-only environment.** Handles Snowflake OIDC login:

```bash
pulumi env init <your-org>/<project>/snowpipe-demo-snowflake
pulumi env edit <your-org>/<project>/snowpipe-demo-snowflake
```

```yaml
values:
  snowflake:
    login:
      fn::open::snowflake-login:
        oidc:
          account: <your-snowflake-account>
          user: ESC_SERVICE_USER
    organizationName: <your-org-name>
    accountName: <your-account-name>
  pulumiConfig:
    snowflake:organizationName: ${snowflake.organizationName}
    snowflake:accountName: ${snowflake.accountName}
    snowflake:user: ${snowflake.login.user}
    snowflake:token: ${snowflake.login.token}
    snowflake:authenticator: OAUTH
    snowflake:role: PULUMI_DEPLOYER
```

**Combined dev environment.** Imports both base environments. Since each base already maps its own credentials via `pulumiConfig`, the combined environment only needs to add `aws:region`:

```bash
pulumi env init <your-org>/<project>/snowpipe-demo-dev
pulumi env edit <your-org>/<project>/snowpipe-demo-dev
```

```yaml
imports:
  - <project>/snowpipe-demo-aws
  - <project>/snowpipe-demo-snowflake
values:
  pulumiConfig:
    aws:region: us-west-2
```

> The `imports` directive merges values from both base environments into the combined one. Each base environment handles its own provider config: the AWS base uses `environmentVariables` for CLI access, while the Snowflake base uses `pulumiConfig` to map OIDC credentials to Snowflake provider config keys. The combined dev environment only needs to add `aws:region`. This keeps credential configuration DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself); if the AWS role ARN or Snowflake account changes, you update one environment.

Reviewer 2: I feel like we just said this:

```suggestion
The `imports` directive merges values from both base environments into the combined one. Each base environment handles its own provider config: the AWS base uses `environmentVariables` for CLI access, while the Snowflake base uses `pulumiConfig` to map OIDC credentials to Snowflake provider config keys. This keeps credential configuration DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself); if the AWS role ARN or Snowflake account changes, you need only update one environment.
```

Add the `environment:` block to `Pulumi.<stack>.yaml`. Note two environment imports, one for cloud credentials and one for GitHub:

```yaml
environment:
  - <project>/snowpipe-demo-dev
  - <project>/snowpipe-demo-github
config:
  snowpipe-data-loading:database: LANDING_ZONE_WEBHOOKS
  snowpipe-data-loading:environment: dev
  snowpipe-data-loading:webhook-repo: <your-test-repo-name>
  snowflake:previewFeaturesEnabled:
    - snowflake_table_resource
    - snowflake_storage_integration_aws_resource
    - snowflake_stage_external_s3_resource
    - snowflake_pipe_resource
```

The `snowflake:previewFeaturesEnabled` list is required since `pulumi-snowflake` v2.12.0, which moved [`Table`](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/snowflake/api-docs/table/), [`StorageIntegrationAws`](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/snowflake/api-docs/storageintegrationaws/), [`StageExternalS3`](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/snowflake/api-docs/stageexternals3/), and [`Pipe`](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/snowflake/api-docs/pipe/) behind preview feature flags. The direct pattern only needs `snowflake_table_resource`; the S3-based patterns (auto-ingest and batch) need all four.

> That's the entire change. No credentials are stored in the Pulumi configuration yaml; the providers pick up their credentials from ESC-injected config transparently.

Reviewer 2: What change? We just wrote this (i.e., nothing's changing).

Since this just seems to repeat the "no local creds" message, we can probably remove it.

```suggestion
```

Although I will say that yeah, it does feel like we've spent a third of the post setting up config, and only now are (hopefully) getting to the topical stuff.

## Testing the pipeline

Deploy the stack:

```bash
pulumi up
```

The entire stack deploys in about two minutes. Immediately after deployment, you'll start seeing GitHub events flowing into Snowflake.

Before querying, grant the `DATA_READER` role to your Snowflake user:

```sql
GRANT ROLE DATA_READER TO USER <your-user>;
```

In production, you can manage this grant through Pulumi, manually, or automatically via SCIM provisioning from your identity provider.

No need to craft test payloads. Just interact with the test repo. Star it, push a commit, or open an issue, then wait about 30 seconds and query Snowflake using the least-privilege reader role:

```sql
USE ROLE DATA_READER;

SELECT CONTENT:github_event::STRING AS event_type,
       CONTENT:payload:repository:full_name::STRING AS repo,
       METADATA:IngestionTime::TIMESTAMP AS ingested_at
FROM LANDING_ZONE_WEBHOOKS.GITHUB.REPOSITORY_EVENTS_DIRECT
ORDER BY ingested_at DESC;
```

You should see rows with event types like `star`, `push`, or `issues`, real GitHub events flowing through the entire pipeline. The `METADATA` column includes Firehose metadata like `IngestionTime`, which you can use to track end-to-end latency.

> ## Alternative patterns: S3 auto-ingest and batch loading

Author: I got a bit crazy, i'll remove those 2 and plan more posts to cover them

<!--more-->

## Who is this for

If you're loading data into Snowflake and want reusable, composable infrastructure, this post is for you. Common use cases include:

- **Webhook and event ingestion:** SaaS webhooks (GitHub, Stripe, HubSpot), application events, or any HTTP-driven data that needs to land in Snowflake quickly.
- **Change Data Capture (CDC) replication:** streaming database changes via Debezium, [Fivetran](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/fivetran/), or [AWS DMS](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/api-docs/dms/) into Snowflake.
- **Log and telemetry pipelines:** application logs, CloudTrail events, or IoT telemetry flowing through Firehose into Snowflake for analytics.
- **Multi-source data pipelines:** teams managing dozens of sources into a centralized Snowflake Data Warehouse with consistent infrastructure and naming conventions.

> [Josh Kodroff](/blog/author/josh-kodroff/) wrote an excellent [introduction to Snowpipe with Pulumi](https://medium.com/snowflake/lightning-fast-elt-for-python-devs-with-aws-snowpipe-and-pulumi-4eaf056dd097). This post builds on his work using the newest [Snowflake](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/snowflake/) and [AWS](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/) provider APIs and the direct Firehose-to-Snowflake destination, which wasn't available when Josh wrote his post. Some resource names and grant patterns will also differ if you're comparing the two.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our own [Josh Kodroff](/blog/author/josh-kodroff/) wrote an excellent [introduction to Snowpipe with Pulumi](https://medium.com/snowflake/lightning-fast-elt-for-python-devs-with-aws-snowpipe-and-pulumi-4eaf056dd097). This post builds on his work using the newest [Snowflake](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/snowflake/) and [AWS](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/) provider APIs and the direct Firehose-to-Snowflake destination, which wasn't available when Josh wrote his post. Some resource names and grant patterns will also differ if you're comparing the two.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Props as always to Josh, but this doesn't seem relevant here. Let's keep the momentum going and dive right in.

```suggestion
```

## Architecture overview

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

![Architecture diagram showing the pipeline: GitHub Webhook sends events to AWS Lambda for HMAC validation, then Firehose streams directly to Snowflake's REPOSITORY_EVENTS_DIRECT landing table. S3 is used only for backup and errors.](architecture-direct.png)

1. GitHub sends webhook events to a Lambda Function URL.
1. Lambda validates the HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) signature and forwards the payload to Amazon Data Firehose.
1. Firehose streams records directly into Snowflake via the Snowpipe Streaming API. Data appears in Snowflake within seconds.
1. S3 is used only as a backup destination for failed records.

The direct Firehose-to-Snowflake destination is an AWS-native feature that works with any Snowflake account.

## Project setup

Start a new Pulumi Python project and configure it to use [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for dependency management:

```bash
mkdir snowpipe-data-loading && cd snowpipe-data-loading
pulumi new python --name snowpipe-data-loading
```

Update `Pulumi.yaml` to use the `uv` toolchain:

```yaml
name: snowpipe-data-loading
runtime:
  name: python
  options:
    toolchain: uv

> description: Production-grade data loading with Pulumi, AWS, and Snowflake

Reviewer 2: This won't be there if they've followed this workflow unless we tell them to type it in, so we can leave it out.

```suggestion
```

    # Wrap in envelope - newline-delimited so Firehose can concatenate records
    record = json.dumps({
        "github_event": github_event,
        "payload": json.loads(body),
    }) + "\n"

    firehose.put_record(
        DeliveryStreamName=STREAM_NAME,
        Record={"Data": record.encode()},
    )

    return {"statusCode": 200, "body": "OK"}
```

The envelope format `{"github_event": "<type>", "payload": {...}}\n` is important. The `github_event` field (e.g., `push`, `pull_request`, `star`) comes from the `x-github-event` header and lets downstream queries filter by event type.

### Why direct Firehose to Snowflake?

With an S3 intermediate path, you wait for Firehose to buffer records (60 seconds), then for Snowpipe to detect the new file and load it. Total latency: about two minutes. With the direct Snowflake destination, Firehose uses the Snowpipe Streaming API to insert records as soon as they arrive, in seconds.

The direct path also removes the need for S3 event notifications, SQS queues, external stages, and pipe resources. S3 is still used, but only as a backup destination for failed records.

### The DirectSnowflakeIngestion component

> The component creates everything needed for the direct path: a TLS key pair for Snowflake authentication, a Snowflake service user with least-privilege grants, the landing table, a Firehose delivery stream with `destination="snowflake"`, and a Lambda function with a public URL.

Author: I don't understand this comment - I thought this guide as a step-by-step guide of how to configure and implement a data pipeline from Github webhook to table in Snowflake; this is very difficult to set up with existing resources because all of the examples are very vague or use "go configure auth" language without explaining how to actually do it, leaving the reader to have to open dozens of different pages to be successful.

I understand it's long but it was my intention to be thorough, if the blog is not the place for such a guide i can close the PR until there is a better place for it.

```

```python
import json
from dataclasses import dataclass

import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws
import pulumi_snowflake as snowflake
import pulumi_tls as tls

from components.snowpipe_pipeline import ColumnDef

def strip_pem_headers(pem: str) -> str:
    """Remove PEM header/footer lines, returning only the base64 content."""
    lines = pem.strip().split("\n")
    return "".join(lines[1:-1])

@dataclass
class DirectSnowflakeIngestionArgs:
    bucket_arn: pulumi.Input[str]
    bucket_name: pulumi.Input[str]
    database: pulumi.Input[str]
    schema_name: pulumi.Input[str]
    table_name: str
    table_columns: list[ColumnDef]
    snowflake_account_url: pulumi.Input[str]
    snowflake_role_name: str
    lambda_code: pulumi.Archive
    lambda_handler: str
    lambda_environment: dict[str, pulumi.Input[str]]
    table_comment: str = ""
    s3_prefix: str = "direct-webhooks"
    s3_backup_mode: str = "FailedDataOnly"
    buffering_interval: int = 0
    buffering_size: int = 1
    retry_duration: int = 60
    data_loading_option: str = "VARIANT_CONTENT_AND_METADATA_MAPPING"
    content_column_name: str = "CONTENT"
    metadata_column_name: str = "METADATA"
```

> The key configuration values: `buffering_interval=0` and `buffering_size=1` tell Firehose to flush immediately (no batching delay), and `VARIANT_CONTENT_AND_METADATA_MAPPING` maps the JSON payload to a `CONTENT` column and Firehose metadata to a `METADATA` column.

Reviewer 2: The way "key" is used here sounds like AI-speak:

```suggestion
The `buffering_interval` and `buffering_size` parameters tell Firehose to flush immediately (no batching delay), and `VARIANT_CONTENT_AND_METADATA_MAPPING` maps the JSON payload to a `CONTENT` column and Firehose metadata to a `METADATA` column.
```

```python
class DirectSnowflakeIngestion(pulumi.ComponentResource):
    function_url: pulumi.Output[str]
    firehose_stream_name: pulumi.Output[str]
    snowflake_user_name: pulumi.Output[str]

    def __init__(
        self,
        name: str,
        args: DirectSnowflakeIngestionArgs,
        opts: pulumi.ResourceOptions | None = None,
    ):
        super().__init__(
            "snowpipe:direct:DirectSnowflakeIngestion", name, {}, opts
        )

        # --- TLS key pair for Snowflake auth ---
        key_pair = tls.PrivateKey(
            f"{name}-keypair",
            algorithm="RSA",
            rsa_bits=2048,
            opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(parent=self),
        )

        # --- Snowflake role, user, and grants ---
        sf_role = snowflake.AccountRole(
            f"{name}-sf-role",
            name=args.snowflake_role_name,
            opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(parent=self),
        )

>         user_name = f"FIREHOSE_{name.upper().replace('-', '_')}_USER"

Reviewer 2: Would it be worth calling out easily missed things, like the string interpolation here, that make solutions like these even more compelling and valuable? (Stuff like this really is unique to Pulumi.)

        self.register_outputs({
            "function_url": self.function_url,
            "firehose_stream_name": self.firehose_stream_name,
            "snowflake_user_name": self.snowflake_user_name,
        })
```

A few things to note:

- **TLS key pair for authentication.** The component generates an RSA key pair using the [`pulumi-tls`](/registry/packages/tls/) provider. The public key is assigned to the Snowflake service user; the private key (PKCS#8 format, base64-encoded) is passed to Firehose. No passwords or OAuth tokens are stored.
- **`ServiceUser` instead of `User`.** Snowflake [service users](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-user#service-type) can't log in interactively. They authenticate only via key pair, which is exactly what Firehose needs.
- **`destination="snowflake"` on Firehose.** This tells Firehose to use the Snowpipe Streaming API rather than writing to S3. The `s3_configuration` block is still required, but only for backup/error records.
- **Immediate flushing.** `buffering_interval=0` and `buffering_size=1` ensure records are sent to Snowflake as soon as they arrive, minimizing latency. Tune according to your needs.

> {{% notes type="warning" %}}

Author: Yes, i really think this is an important security warning

        }),
        lambda_handler="webhook_handler.handler",
        lambda_environment={"WEBHOOK_SECRET": direct_webhook_secret.result},
    ),
)

# Step 3: GitHub webhook - sends events to the Lambda Function URL
github.RepositoryWebhook(
    "github-direct-webhook",
    repository=webhook_repo,
    configuration=github.RepositoryWebhookConfigurationArgs(
        url=direct.function_url,
        content_type="json",
        secret=direct_webhook_secret.result,
    ),
    events=["push", "pull_request", "issues", "star"],
)

# Exports
pulumi.export("webhook_url", direct.function_url)
pulumi.export("firehose_stream", direct.firehose_stream_name)
```

That's the entire pipeline. One component, one GitHub webhook, one secret. The `DirectSnowflakeIngestion` component handles the TLS key pair, Snowflake service user, landing table, Firehose stream, and Lambda function internally.

{{% notes type="info" %}}
The full code for this example is available at [https://github.com/pulumi-demos/examples/tree/main/python/aws-snowflake-data-loading-real-time](https://github.com/pulumi-demos/examples/tree/main/python/aws-snowflake-data-loading-real-time).

> {{% /notes %}}

Reviewer 2: We actually built a thing just for this!

```suggestion
The full code for this example is available on GitHub:

{{< github-card repo="pulumi-demos/examples" path="python/aws-snowflake-data-loading-real-time" >}}
```

## Testing the pipeline

Deploy the stack:

```bash
pulumi up
```

The entire stack deploys in about two minutes. Immediately after deployment, you'll start seeing GitHub events flowing into Snowflake.

Before querying, grant the `DATA_READER` role to your Snowflake user:

```sql
GRANT ROLE DATA_READER TO USER <your-user>;
```

In production, you can manage this grant through Pulumi, manually, or automatically via SCIM provisioning from your identity provider.

No need to craft test payloads. Just interact with the test repo. Star it, push a commit, or open an issue, then wait about 30 seconds and query Snowflake using the least-privilege reader role:

```sql
USE ROLE DATA_READER;

SELECT CONTENT:github_event::STRING AS event_type,
       CONTENT:payload:repository:full_name::STRING AS repo,
       METADATA:IngestionTime::TIMESTAMP AS ingested_at
FROM LANDING_ZONE_WEBHOOKS.GITHUB.REPOSITORY_EVENTS_DIRECT
ORDER BY ingested_at DESC;
```

> You should see rows with event types like `star`, `push`, or `issues`, real GitHub events flowing through the entire pipeline. The `METADATA` column includes Firehose metadata like `IngestionTime`, which you can use to track end-to-end latency.

Author: I can make it in the week by bringing the infra back up

- **Batch loading.** Your orchestrator (Airflow, Prefect, cron, etc.) runs `COPY INTO` on a schedule. Best for full control over timing and deduplication.

We'll walk through both patterns in detail in upcoming posts.

## Production tips

A few things we learned running this at scale:

**Use direct Firehose to Snowflake for lowest latency.** The direct path delivers data in seconds and reduces the number of resources you manage (no stages, pipes, SQS queues, or S3 notifications).

**Use separate ESC environments per deployment target.** Each environment (dev, staging, production) needs its own OIDC role ARN, so create separate ESC environments for each. Use [`imports`](/docs/esc/environments/imports/) to share common settings like provider versions and non-secret configuration:

```yaml
# snowpipe-demo-production
imports:
  - snowpipe-demo-shared-settings
values:
  aws:
    login:
      fn::open::aws-login:
        oidc:
          duration: 1h
          roleArn: arn:aws:iam::111111111111:role/pulumi-esc-production
          sessionName: pulumi-snowpipe-production
  pulumiConfig:
    aws:region: us-west-2
    snowflake:role: PULUMI_DEPLOYER
```

> **Generate webhook secrets with Pulumi.** Instead of manually creating a secret and copy-pasting it into both your webhook configuration and your Lambda environment, use `random.RandomPassword` to generate it in Pulumi state. The secret is automatically wired to both the Lambda env var and the GitHub webhook config, and it rotates cleanly if you ever need to replace it.

Reviewer 2: I completely missed that we randomly generated that password. Definitely seems worth calling that out!

Author: But we are calling it out, i don't understand 🤔

```bash
pulumi package publish ./schema.json
```

This gives you auto-generated API docs, usage tracking across teams, and cross-language SDK generation. Your Python components become usable from TypeScript, Go, and C# without any extra work. Teams browse available components in the Pulumi Cloud console, see who's using what, and get notified when new versions are published. As an additional benefit, [Neo](https://www.pulumi.com/product/neo/) will be able to use these components and build new pipelines in minutes from a natural language request.

## Conclusion

[`ComponentResource`](/docs/iac/concepts/components/) is the key abstraction that makes this architecture scale. Instead of copying and pasting resources for each new data source, you instantiate a component with a handful of configuration parameters.

The `DirectSnowflakeIngestion` component in this post delivers data from GitHub webhooks into Snowflake in seconds: Lambda validates the HMAC signature, Firehose streams directly to Snowflake via the Snowpipe Streaming API, and the TLS key pair is managed entirely within Pulumi. No S3 intermediate, no SQS queues.

> The component accepts pluggable Lambda handlers, so swapping GitHub for Stripe webhooks or any other source is just a matter of providing different `lambda_code` and `lambda_environment` arguments. This pattern has been running in production for over three years across dozens of pipelines without significant changes to the infrastructure code. When you're ready to share components across teams, [`pulumi package add`](/docs/iac/cli/commands/pulumi_package_add/) or [`pulumi package publish`](/docs/iac/cli/commands/pulumi_package_publish/) turns them into versioned, cross-language packages. You'll find the complete example in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/pulumi-demos/examples/tree/main/python/aws-snowflake-data-loading-real-time).

Reviewer 2: We should call out that _we've_ been running this in production! Give it its own paragraph and share how it's helped us, allowed us to roll our changes across all pipelines, let certain pipelines remain pinned if they needed to (if they did — just spitballing), etc. 

Also we already said this. I personally believe it fits better here than it does above, so feel free to 

```suggestion
The component accepts pluggable Lambda handlers, so swapping GitHub for Stripe webhooks or any other source is just a matter of providing different `lambda_code` and `lambda_environment` arguments. 

We've been using this pattern in production for over three years, across dozens of pipelines, without significant changes. _[More interestingness here]_ When you're ready to share components across teams, [`pulumi package add`](/docs/iac/cli/commands/pulumi_package_add/) or [`pulumi package publish`](/docs/iac/cli/commands/pulumi_package_publish/) turns them into versioned, cross-language packages.

You'll find the full code for this example on GitHub:

{{< github-card repo="pulumi-demos/examples" path="python/aws-snowflake-data-loading-real-time" >}}
```
